** Working Code Isn’t Enough **
(Strategic vs. Tactical Programming)

~~ Section 3.1 ~~

"Somehow, I need to get this working and push to production", said Joe.
Its relatable and reasonable - code works! Then, what's wrong?

Finishing something as quickly misses planning for future.
Wrong is going to haunt the #team in the future.
Its nearly impossible to produce good design with this style, called Tactical Programming.

Sometimes, this is rewarded for speed of producing features. But the mess is usually handled by future engineers.

One single occurrence is surely going to look insignificant. But many such changes are going to have a compounded effects in terms of system complexity.
At times, impulse tells you 'go back', 'refactor', but - there is no time. So you patch things, deliver current feature, and say, 'Hey, code works!'

We need to understand this - Working Code Is Not Enough. Thrive to produce a great design every single time, whose code also works.
This is called Strategic Programming.

So, next time you are writing some code, think of some alternatives based on how you perceive future system, and then choose one.
Writing good documentation is another huge investment.




~~ Section 3.2 ~~

There are going to be problems with your system design.

Yes. Even if you use Strategic Programming.
Do not patch around things. Refactor, redesign.

This is like an investment.
These will slow you down in the short run, but definitely speed you up in the long run.

How much time to invest in designing?
Huge upfront time? No - that's waterfall - it doesn't work We saw it last week.

Invest on a continual basis, cumulating to around 10-20% of total development time.

If you don't do strategic programming, the tactical programming will appear faster initially, but soon strategic programming will overtake it.
See the figure.

This specifically applies to #startups . Fight the rationale - deliver quickly, get the #funding, then will have time and people to cleanup.
This r a r e l y works.
First - hiring is difficult even when you have money. Second, if you need best engineers - they care about design. If yours is bad, they are unlikely to hang around for long.



~~ Section 3.3 ~~

Author mentions earlier Facebook adopted Tactical Programming strategy. Graduates out of college were encouraged to push code to production in their first week.
Is it true - employees and alumnies of #Facebook?

Later, as codebase grew, and became painful, eventually Facebook moved to Strategic Programming.

Few other companies in the silicon valley - #Google and #vmware adopted Strategic Programming since the beginning when they were #startups
Persoanlly, it was indeed joy to work with codebase of Google.

So, #entreprenuers, you won't be making a wrong choice by investing in design on a continual basis.

